---
title: Constitutional Amendment for Legislative Betterment
status: current
term: 12
amendment: unknown
date: 2018-12-24 18:47:00 +0000
proposer: Aleh56
proxy: ''
yay:
- ShadiestMule51
- ThirdOfFive
- Orinnari
- Aleh56
- Locke
- Slushhi
- BoomBox59
nay: []
abs: []
dnv: []
quotes: []

---
These changes are to make the amendment process easier and less open to abuse. If you're not sure what that is then basically it's to allow us to edit something once voting on it has already started - if a majority support the edit then it goes through, otherwise the edit can't take place.

* Voting on bills and motions was actually changed from 24 hours to 48 hours back on the 1st of August 2018 but this was completely forgotten about by everyone (including myself) and since then we've continued to just do 24 hours. Firstly what this will do is change it back 24 hours since it's what we've been doing anyway.
* The law that sets out how we amend things that are currently being voted on is being absorbed into the constitution. Though it's slightly different, the current law is set up so one representative from each party would vote on behalf of the whole party. The changes here mean that every MP would vote on their own, like currently we do for everything else.
* Relating to both of the above points, the President is able to grant twelve hour extensions to anything being voting on if and only if there's an amendment. This is just to ensure there's enough time for people to read and vote on amendments - if you submit an amendment a few hours before voting ends most people won't see it and it'll fail. It doesn't mean there will always be an extension, just that there could be.
* Constitutional changes that are submitted automatically get a twelve hour extension - this is just to prevent abuse of the system since constitutional changes are harder to undo once passed.

[\[Reference\]](../../uploads/b074.pdf)